## Impacts on population indices if scientific surveys are excluded from marine protected areas

Code for an analysis of impacts on population indices if scientific surveys are
excluded from MPAs. The analysis focuses on groundfish and the Northern Shelf
Bioregion MPA network off the west coast of Canada.

### Citation:

Anderson, S.C., P.A. English, K.S.P. Gale, D.R. Haggarty, C.K. Robb, E.M. Rubidge,
and P.L. Thompson. Impacts on population indices if scientific surveys are
excluded from marine protected areas. ICES Journal of Marine Science.
https://doi.org/10.1093/icesjms/fsae009

### Folders:

- `analysis`: code to run the analyses
- `data-generated`: data that have been manipulated and cached
- `data-raw`: raw data; mostly kept locally and not in version control due to size
- `figs`: generated figures
- `text`: manuscript text; copied from an Overleaf repository (do not edit here)

### Analysis instructions:

To recreate the analyses, the R files in `analysis` need to be run in numerical
sequence. The first file (`01-load-data.R`) does not need to be run since all
data generated by that file have been cached and committed to this Git
repository. Some analyses take considerable time to run (hours to a day
depending on the computer). In particular, `02-fit-geostat.R` (which fits all
the spatiotemporal models) and to a lesser degree `05-power.R` (which runs a
power analysis with spatiotemporal models) will be slow.

### R Packages:

All R packages used should be available on CRAN with the following exceptions:

```r
install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github("seananderson/ggsidekick")
remotes::install_github("ropensci/rnaturalearthhires")
# available on CRAN, but suggest using the latest development version:
remotes::install_github("pbs-assess/sdmTMB", dependencies = TRUE)
```
